# Meeting 09-June-2021

## Attendees 

- Pablo
- Guillermo
- Jorge

## Done
- Downloaded and extracted the JSON and TTL dumps in the development virtual machine (156.35.82.25).
- Analysed the subqueries used in the [SPARQL queries](https://github.com/fnielsen/scholia/tree/master/scholia/app/templates) looking for patterns. It is somewhat irregular: those corresponding to "organization" usually have the following condition.
 ```sparql
 ?researcher ( wdt:P108 | wdt:P463 | wdt:P1416 ) / wdt:P361* wd:{{ q }
 ```
 Its form varies, though. It may be a simple subquery, a subquery within a WITH or just as part of a WHERE. Others, like those corresponding to "country", vary greatly (?location, ?author, ?coorganization...) and might need a -quite likely specific- subset for each one.
- First approach to extract an inner query and expose it to a local endpoint.
    - We´ve used the first query that extract the authors from [this query](https://github.com/weso/scholia/blob/weso/master/scholia/app/templates/country_authors.sparql)
    - Results were uploaded to a local Fuseki.
    - Wikidata query service doesn´t allow to perform federate queries to private endpoints.

## Tasks

- Deploy a Blazegraph continer in the development machine and load the wikidata turtle dump. Test its resource utilisation with respect to the ammount of loaded data.
- Write small python docker jobs scheduler to sort the execution of the docker jobs in the development server.
- Continue improving the performance tests.
- Measure the time of the inner query in the Fuseki instance and compare it with the wikidata time.
